# Examples dotnet JSON <!-- omit in toc -->

## Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [1. What is this project](#1-what-is-this-project)
- [2. Projects type `console`](#2-projects-type-console)
- [3. Overview](#3-overview)
  - [3.1. System.Text.Json](#31-systemtextjson)
  - [3.2. Newtonsoft](#32-newtonsoft)
  - [3.3. Comparation](#33-comparation)
- [4. Benchmarks](#4-benchmarks)

# 1. What is this project

- This project shows how to work with JSON data in C# using the classes of the **standard** and **Newtonsoft** libraries.

# 2. Projects type `console`

- .NET 7

# 3. Overview

- JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format.
- It is easily read and written by humans and parsed and generated by machines.
- The application/json is the official Internet media type for JSON.
- The JSON filename extension is .json.

## 3.1. System.Text.Json

- The System.Text.Json namespace provides high-performance, low-allocating, and standards-compliant tools to work with JSON.
- The classes allow us to serialize objects into JSON text and deserialize JSON text to objects.
- The UTF-8 support is built-in.

## 3.2. Newtonsoft

- Newtonsoft Json.NET is a popular high-performance JSON framework for .NET.
- In this article, we work with Newtonsoft Json.NET library.
- In the standard library, we can alternatively use System.Text.Json.

## 3.3. Comparation

- [Compare Newtonsoft.Json to System.Text.Json, and migrate to System.Text.Json](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/serialization/system-text-json/migrate-from-newtonsoft?pivots=dotnet-7-0)

# 4. Benchmarks

- [.NET Performance #2: Newtonsoft vs. System.Text.Json](https://medium.com/@tobias.streng/net-performance-series-2-newtonsoft-vs-system-text-json-2bf43e037db0)
- [Benchmarking .NET JSON Serializers on AWS Lambda](https://dev.to/lambdasharp/benchmarking-net-json-serializers-on-aws-lambda-279m)
